---
title: "Salesforce data connector setup for Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager"
f1.keywords:
- NOCSH
ms.author: chvukosw
author: chvukosw
manager: laurawi
ms.date: 05/12/2023
audience: Admin
ms.topic: article
ms.service: O365-seccomp
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.collection:
- purview-compliance
- m365solution-compliancemanager
- m365initiative-compliance
- tier1
search.appverid:
- MOE150
- MET150
description: "Configure settings in your Salesforce accounts in order to activate data connectors for Microsoft Purview Compliance Manager."
---

# Salesforce setup for Compliance Manager data connector

Follow the instructions on this page to enable the connection between your Salesforce account and the Compliance Manager data connector for Salesforce.

## Overview

We are using here Soap API and we are using UsernameToken authentication. We are passing Username, password and security token to login method (provided by proxy class).

The SOAP endpoints utilize basic authentication. Requests are made using the proxy classes generated by the Salesforce Sales Cloud tenant Enterprise WSDL and will take the username and password as arguments for the Login method.

Login requests are handled through the standard frontdoor.jsp page in Salesforce Sales Cloud. Following a successful login, a sessionId is returned.  

The returned sessionId functions as proof of authentication and must be provided as a header is all authenticated requests.

Unsecure connections are blocked, so requests must be made through HTTPS or TLS 1.2+.

## Setup steps 
Follow the steps below to get the information needed to [activate a connector](compliance-manager-connectors.md#step-2-activate-the-connector-in-compliance-manager) for Salesforce in Compliance Manager. 

> [!TIP]
> This process involves obtaining a token for a given Salesforce account. Therefore, if you activate multple connectors for multiple Salesforce accounts, you'll need to repeat this process for each account in order to get the token.

1. Log into your Salesforce acciont with your credentials.
1. Go to your account **Settings** and select **Resert My Securty Token**. This can be done by any user.
1. Select **Reset Security** to get a new security token sent to your email.

The token is used to call three separate APIs.

When you activate a Salesforce connector in Compliance Manager, you'll provide your **Username**, **Password**, and **Security token**. Once you validate the connection during the connector activatin procss, you're all set up and ready to begin using the connector.
