---
title: Insider Risk alerts
description: Learn about Insider Risk in Microsoft 365
keywords: Microsoft 365, Insider Risk, risk management, compliance
localization_priority: Normal
ms.prod: Microsoft-365-enterprise
ms.topic: article
ms.author: robmazz
author: robmazz
manager: laurawi
audience: itpro
ms.collection: m365-security-compliance
---

# Insider Risk alerts

Insider risk alerts are generated by the risk signals defined in insider risk policies. These alerts give compliance monitors an all-up view of the current risk status and allow your organization to triage and remediate the risks discovered.

## Insider risk alert dashboard

The insider risk alert dashboard allows you to view and take action on alerts generated by insider risk policies.

- **Alerts needing review**:
- **Open alerts over time**:
- **Statistics**:

## Alert status and severity

You can triage alerts into one of the following statuses:

- **Confirmed**: 
- **Dismissed**:
- **Needs review**:
- **Resolved**:

## Triage an alert

To triage an insider risk alert, complete the following steps:

1. In the Microsoft 365 compliance center, go to **Insider Risk** and select the **Alerts** tab.
2. On the alerts dashboard, select the alert you want to triage.
1. On the alerts detail pane, you can review the following pages and triage the alert:
    - **Overview**: This page contains general information about the alert and allows you to confirm the alert and create a new case, or allows you to dismiss the alert as benign.
        - **Status**
        - **Time detected**
        - **Policy violated**: The policy that generated the alert is listed
        - **Severity**
        - **Active case** 
        - **Confirm and create a new case**:
        - **Dismiss as benign**:
    - **User activity**: This page displays the activity history for the user defined in the alert. This history includes other alerts and activities related to risk signals defined in playbook assigned to the policy for this alert.
    - **User profile**: The user profile page displays the general information about the user assigned to the alert.

## Filter alerts

To filter alerts on the alerts dashboard details pane, select the **Filter** control. You can filter alerts by one or more criteria groups:

- **Status**: Select one or more status values to filter the alert list
- **Severity**:
- **Time detected**:

## Search alerts

To search the alert name for a specific word, select the **Search** control and type the word to search. The search will display any policy alert containing the word in the search.
