---
title: Insider risk management in Microsoft 365
description: Learn about Insider risk management in Microsoft 365
keywords: Microsoft 365, insider risk, risk management, compliance
localization_priority: Normal
ms.prod: Microsoft-365-enterprise
ms.topic: article
ms.author: robmazz
author: robmazz
manager: laurawi
audience: itpro
ms.collection: m365-security-compliance
---

# Insider risk management in Microsoft 365

Insider risk management is part of the new internal risk solution set in Microsoft 365 that helps minimize internal risks by helping you detect, investigate, and take remediation actions for inappropriate activities in your organization. Custom policies allow you to detect and take action on malicious and inadvertent risk activities in your organization, including escalating cases to other Microsoft 365 investigation solutions if needed. Risk analysts in your organization can quickly take appropriate remediation actions to make sure that your users are compliant with your organization's compliance standards.

## Modern risk pain points

Effectively managing and minimizing risk in your organization starts with understanding the types of risks found in the modern workplace. Some risks are driven by external events and factors and are outside direct control, while other risks are driven by internal events and employee activities that can be eliminated and avoided. Some examples are risks from illegal, inappropriate, unauthorized, or unethical behavior and actions by employees and managers. These behaviors include a broad range of risks from employees:

- Leaks of sensitive data and data spillage
- Confidentiality violations
- Intellectual property (IP) theft
- Fraud
- Insider trading
- Regulatory compliance violations

Employees in the modern workplace have access to create, manage, and share data across a broad spectrum of platforms and services. In most cases, organizations have limited resources and tools to identify and mitigate organization-wide risks while also meeting employee privacy standards.

Insider risk management in Microsoft 365 uses the full breadth of service and 3rd-party signals to help you quickly identify, triage, and remediate risks. By using logs from Office 365 and Azure services, Insider risk management allows you to define specific policies to monitor for risk signals and to take action to remediate the associated risk from these activities.

Insider risk management is centered around the following principles:

- **Transparency**: Balance employee privacy versus organization risk with privacy-by-design architecture.
- **Configurable**: Configurable policies based on industry, geographical, and business groups.
- **Integrated**: Integrated workflow across Microsoft 365 compliance solutions.
- **Actionable**: Provides insights to enable employee notifications, data investigations, and employee investigations.

## Terminology

The Insider Risk compliance solution...

| **Term** | **Definition** |
|:-----|:-----|
| Alerts| An Insider Risk alert is |
| Cases| An Insider Risk case is |
| Content Explorer | The Insider Risk Content Explorer is  |
| Notices| Insider Risk notices are |
| Playbooks| Insider Risk playbooks are pre-configured templates applied to policies that contain a comprehensive set of risk signals to drive alerts. Default playbooks address security controls violations, data theft from departing employees, communication policy violations, potential reporting violations, and data leakage. |
| Policies| An Insider Risk policy |
| Policy severity| |
| User Activities | User activities are |
| User risk|  |

## Workflow

Identifying and mitigating employee risks 

WORKFLOW IMAGE

1. **Configure policies**: Policies are created using pre-defined playbooks and the policies allow you to define what signals are used in other feature areas. These include how signals are used for alerts, what users are monitored by the policy, which services are monitored, how you weigh the alerts, and the monitoring time period.
2. **Monitor alerts**: Alerts are generated by signals that match your policies and are displayed in the Alerts Dashboard, enabling a quick view of alerts needing review, open alerts over time, and alert statistics for your organization
3. **Triage alerts**: Triage alerts as needing review, confirmed, or dismissed
4. **Investigate alerts**:
5. **Remediate**: After alerts are confirmed, you can open a case to take an action to remediate the policy match:
    - Notice/education for employee: Send a email reminder notice to the employee about the policy violation
    - Investigate data: Open an escalation to your data investigation admins
    - Investigate employee: Open an escalation to your employee investigation admins
6. **Share into investigations**:

## Requirements

- The following plans include Insider Risk Management:
    - Microsoft 365 E5
    - Microsoft 365 E5 Compliance

## Scenarios

Insider risk policies can assist measuring and remediating risks in your organization in several areas:

### Data theft by departing employee

When employees leave an organization, either voluntarily or as the result of termination, there is often legitimate concern that intellectual property (IP) is at risk. Employees may innocently think that data relating to their projects isn't proprietary or they may be tempted to take company data for personal gain and in violation of company policy and legal standards. Insider risk policies can detect activities typically associated with this type of theft and help you take corrective actions to help mitigate the impact. By configuring an insider risk policy specifically focused on activities typically associated with actions taken by departing employees...

### Intentional or unintentional leak of sensitive or confidential information

### Employees and contractors that violate security policies

### Actions and behaviors that violate Human Resources policies

## Ready to get started?

To configure Insider Risk Management for your organization, see [Get Started with Insider Risk Management](insider-risk-get-started.md)
