---
title: "Get started with app threat detection and remediation"
f1.keywords:
- NOCSH
ms.author: josephd
author: JoeDavies-MSFT
manager: laurawi
audience: Admin
ms.topic: article
ms.service: O365-seccomp
ms.collection: m365-security-compliance
localization_priority: Priority
search.appverid: 
- MOE150
- MET150
description: "Get started with app threat detection and remediation."
---

# Get started with app threat detection and remediation

>*[Microsoft 365 licensing guidance for security & compliance](https://aka.ms/ComplianceSD).*

The first place to view app alerts is the Microsoft Application Protection and Governance (MAPG) dashboard at [https://compliance.microsoft.com/m365appprotection](https://compliance.microsoft.com/m365appprotection).

\[Placeholder for MAPG Overview page screenshot with the Detection and policy alerts section highlighted]

On this overview page, a Detection and policy alerts section lists the latest alerts. You can use this to quickly see the current app alert activity for your tenant.

To see all of the alerts, select the **Alerts** tab.

## What’s available on the Alerts page

The **Alerts** page lists all of the MAPG-based Alerts for your tenant.

\[Placeholder for MAPG Alerts page screenshot]

Each listed alert has the following information:

- **Alert name**: The type of anomalous behavior.
- **App name**: The app generating the alert.
- **Severity**: The severity assigned by MAPG for alerts it creates or the severity of the app policy.
- **Source**: Either MAPG with a source of **Detection** on an app policy with a source of **Policy**.
- **Status**: **New** indicates an alert that has not been assigned a status, which is either **In progress** while being investigated or **Resolved** for alerts that have been addressed.
- **Date created**: The date the alert was generated by either MAPG detection or through an app policy.
- **Last activity**: The date the status of the alert was last changed.

The alert list is sorted by **Date created** by default. To sort the list my another category, select the category name.

You can also export the current alert list to a comma separated value (CSV) file.

## Next step

[Detect and remediate app threats.](mapg-detect-remediate-detect-threats.md)

