---
title: "Investigate and remediate Communication Supervision alerts"
ms.author: robmazz
author: robmazz
manager: laurawi
audience: Admin
ms.topic: article
f1_keywords:
- 'ms.o365.cc.SupervisoryReview'
ms.service: O365-seccomp
localization_priority: Normal
ms.collection:
- Strat_O365_IP
- M365-security-compliance
search.appverid:
- MET150
- MOE150
description: "Investigate and remediate Communication Supervision alerts in Microsoft 365."
---

# Investigate and remediate Communication Supervision alerts

After you've configured your Communication Supervision policies, you'll start to receive alerts for message issues that match your policy conditions. Follow the workflow instructions here to investigate and remediate alert issues.

## Review pending alerts

The first step to investigate issues detected by your policies is to review generated alerts in the Microsoft 365 compliance center. There are several areas to quickly review alerts, depending on how you prefer to view alert grouping:

- **Communication Supervision home page**: When you sign into [https://protection.office.com](https://protection.office.com) using credentials for an admin account in your Microsoft 365 organization, select **Supervision** > **Overview** to display the Communication Supervision home page. Here you'll see alerts needing review that are listed from high to low severity. Select an alert to launch the alert details page and to start remediation actions.
- **Alerts tab**: Navigate to **Supervision** > **Alerts** to display alerts grouped by matching Communication Supervision policy. This view allows you to quickly see which policies are generating the most alerts ordered by severity.  Expand a policy to select a specific alert to launch the alert details page and to start remediation actions.
- **Policies tab**: Navigate to **Supervision** > **Policies** to display the Communication Supervision policies configured for your Microsoft 365 organization. Each policy listed includes the count of alerts that need review. Selecting a policy displays all the pending alerts for matches to the policy, select a specific alert to launch the alert details page and to start remediation actions.

## Remediate alerts

No matter where you start to review alerts, the next step is to take action to remediate the alert. Start your alert remediation using the following workflow in the Microsoft 365 compliance center:

1. **Examine the message basics**: Sometimes it's obvious from the source or subject that a message is spurious and it should be resolved as a false positive. Select the **False Positive** control to immediately resolve the alert and remove from the pending alert queue. This is also a good time to consider using the **Tag as** or **Escalate** controls to assign a tag to applicable messages or to send the message to a designated reviewer. From the source or sender information, you may already know how the message should routed or handled in these circumstances.

2. **Examine the message details**: After your first pass through the message basics, it's time to open a message to examine the details and to determine the appropriate remediation action. Select a message to view the complete message header and body information. Several different views are available to help you decide the proper course of action:

    - **Native view**: This view is the standard message view commonly seen in most web-based messaging platforms. The header information is formatted in the normal style and the message body supports imbedded graphic files and word-wrapped text.
    - **Text view**: Text view displays a line-numbered text-only view of the message. Embedded files aren't displayed and the line numbering is helpful for referencing pertinent details among multiple reviewers.
    - **Annotate view**: This view allows reviewers to add annotations directly on the message that are saved to the view of the message.
    - **User history**: User history view displays all other alerts generated by any Communication Supervision policy for the user sending the message.
    - **Details**: The Details view displays the full details of the message, including all message fields logged by the message service source.

3. **Decide on a remediation action**: Now that you've reviewed the details of the message for the alert, you can choose several remediation actions:

    - **Resolve**: Selecting the **Resolve** control immediately removes the message from the **Pending alerts** queue and no further action can be taken on the message. By selecting **Resolve**, you've essentially closed the alert without further classification and it cannot be reopened for further actions. All resolved messages are displayed in the **Resolved** tab.
    - **False Positive**: You can always resolve a message as a false positive at any point during the message review workflow.
    - **Tag as**: Tag the message as *compliant*, *non-compliant*, or as *questionable* as it relates to the policies and standards for your organization. Adding tags and tagging comments can help you micro-filter policy alerts for escalations or as part of other internal review processes. After tagging is complete, you can also choose to resolve the message to move it out of the pending review queue.
    - **Notify**: You can use the **Notify** control to assign a custom notice template to the alert and to send a simple warning notice to the user. Choose the appropriate notice template and select **Send** to email a reminder to the employee that sent the message and to resolve the issue.
    - **Escalate**: Using the **Escalate** control, you can choose who else in your organization should review the message. HOW IS THE ESCALTION LIST OF USERS GENERATED
    - **Create case**: In the most serious cases, you may need to share the message for the Communication Supervision alert with other Microsoft 365 compliance managment solutions for deeper investigation and management. Select **Create case** > **SPECIFIC CASE?** to create a new case in Insider Risk Managment, Data Investigations, or Advanced eDiscovery. Selecting the **Create case** control always creates a new case in the selected Microsoft 365 solution, information contained in the alert is not appended to existing cases. If multiple alerts should apply to a single case, the cases must be merged in the individual compliance solutions.

4. **Determine if message details should be archived outside of Communication Supervision**: Message details can be exported or downloaded if you need to archive the messages in a separate storage solution.
