---
title: 'Image tagging in SharePoint Syntex'
ms.author: mikeplum
author: MikePlumleyMSFT
manager: serdars
audience: admin
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: microsoft-365-enterprise
search.appverid: 
localization_priority: Priority
description: 'Learn about image tagging in SharePoint Syntex'
---

# Image tagging in SharePoint Syntex

Users can find images based on the content of the image from Search. 

Users can learn about the content of images via screen reader when browsing a library or in search results 

Users can add or remove tags in OneDrive, the SharePoint Document Library View and the search results page.  

A tenant admin can opt out of image tags. 

When an image is uploaded, the tagger module is run.  If there are tags associated with the image, a column is added with the tags. 

When a user edits the tag column, mark it so that tags are never regenerated by the system going forward.   

When an image is edited, the tagger module is run.  If the tags column has not been previously edited by a user, apply new tags to the image.  If the tags column has been previously edited by a user, do not apply new tags to the image. 

Today, in ODSP, 37 image tags are turned on for all users.  When we turn on this new feature, existing customers will continue getting the 37 tags and e5 and Cortex customers will get the larger list of thousands of tags.  

Turning on and off the feature 

In the admin center, there will be a toggle to turn off tags or to reduce to the basic 37 tags.  When the admin turns off tags, the tagger will still run so that we can implement our cost optimization on OCR, but tags will not be populated in the metadata column. (3 states for a tenant – no tags, 37 tags, thousands of tags) 

The following 37 objects are detected: 

Banner 

envelope 

Object 

Screenshot 

Blackboard 

file folder 

Office 

Sign 

Book 

image 

Outdoor 

Stamp 

business card 

indoor 

Person 

Stationary 

Clapperboard 

lanyard 

Photo 

Text 

Clipart 

linedrawing 

Plaque 

vector graphics 

Display 

map 

Receipt 

Video 

Document 

mosaic 

Restaurant 

Whiteboard 

Doorplate 

newspaper 

scoreboard 

x-ray film 

Drawing 

  

To turn image tagging on or off

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, click **Setup**.

  

 

## See also

