---
title: What's new in Microsoft 365 Business Premium and Microsoft Defender for Business
description: Learn about new features and capabilities in Microsoft 365 Business Premium and Microsoft Defender for Business.
search.appverid: 
- MET150 
- BCS160
author: denisebmsft
ms.author: deniseb
manager: dansimp 
audience: Admin
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 07/19/2023
ms.service: microsoft-365-security
ms.subservice: mdb
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.collection: 
- tier2
- m365-security
ms.reviewer: nehabha, efratka
f1.keywords: NOCSH 
---

# What's new in Microsoft 365 Business Premium and Microsoft Defender for Business

**Applies to:**
- [Microsoft 365 Business Premium](index.md)
- [Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-overview.md)

This article lists new features in the latest release of [Microsoft 365 Business Premium](index.md) and [Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-overview.md). Features that are currently in preview are denoted with **(preview)**.

## July 2023

> [!TIP]
> **Read all about the exciting, new capabilities releasing in July 2023 in the [Tech Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023](https://aka.ms/SMBSecurityJulyBlog)**.

- **Mobile threat defense is rolling out**. Mobile threat defense includes operating system-level threat and vulnerability management, web protection, and app security. It's not generally available in Defender for Business and Microsoft 365 Business Premium. [Learn more about mobile threat defense](../security/defender-business/mdb-mtd.md).

- **Automatic attack disruption** is rolling out. During an ongoing attack, automatic attack disruption capabilities swiftly contain compromised devices to help stop lateral movement within the network and minimize the overall impact of the attack. Automatic attack disruption is included in Defender for Business and Microsoft 365 Business Premium. [Learn more about automatic attack disruption](../security/defender/automatic-attack-disruption.md).

- **Security summary reports** are rolling out. Use these reports to view threats that were prevented by Defender for Business, Microsoft Secure Score status, and recommendations for improving security. See [Reports in Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-reports.md).

- **Streaming API (preview) is now available for Defender for Business**. For partners or customers looking to build their own security operations center, the Defender for Endpoint streaming API is now in preview for Defender for Business and Microsoft 365 Business Premium. The API supports streaming of device file, registry, network, sign-in events and more to Azure Event Hub, Azure Storage, and Microsoft Sentinel to support advanced hunting and attack detection. See [Use the streaming API (preview) with Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-streaming-api.md). 

- **Managed detection and response integration with Blackpoint Cyber**. This solution is ideal for customers who don’t have the resources to invest in an in-house security operations center and for partners who want to augment their IT team with security experts to investigate, triage, and remediate the alerts generated by Defender for Business and Business Premium. [Learn more bout Blackpoint Cyber](https://aka.ms/BlackpointMSFT).

- **Customizable security baselines and configuration drift reports in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse**. For Microsoft Managed Service Providers (MSPs), Microsoft 365 Lighthouse includes security baselines to deploy a standardized set of configurations to customers’ tenants. Microsoft 365 Lighthouse now lets MSPs customize baselines based on expertise and tailor them to customers’ unique needs. [Learn more about Microsoft 365 Lighthouse](../lighthouse/m365-lighthouse-overview.md).

- **New training resources for Microsoft partners**. To provide step-by-step guidance for partners on how to build services based on critical CIS cybersecurity controls, a Security Managed services kit and a three-part digital training series are now available. See **IT partner resources to help build security services** in the [Tech Community blog: New SMB security innovations from Microsoft Inspire 2023](https://aka.ms/SMBSecurityJulyBlog).

## March 2023

- **Mobile threat defense (preview) is added to Defender for Business**. The ability to [onboard iOS and Android devices](../security/defender-business/mdb-onboard-devices.md) to the standalone version of Defender for Business is now in preview! These capabilities provide OS-level threat and vulnerability management, web protection, and app security to help you and employees stay more secure on the go. See [Mobile threat defense capabilities in Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-mtd.md).

- **Monthly security summary report (preview) is added to Defender for Business** (preview). The new monthly security summary report shows how secure your organization is across identity, devices, information, and apps. You can view threats detected (and blocked) by Defender for Business together with your current status from Microsoft Secure Score. Recommendations to improve your security are also provided. See [Reports in Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-reports.md).

- **Device exposure score is now visible in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse** (preview). Microsoft Cloud Solution Providers (CSPs) who are using [Microsoft 365 Lighthouse](../lighthouse/m365-lighthouse-overview.md) can now view and manage device exposure scores across customer tenants. These capabilities enable partners to discover which customers' devices are at risk because of vulnerabilities. See [Overview of the Vulnerability management page in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse](/microsoft-365/lighthouse/m365-lighthouse-vulnerability-management-page-overview).

## January 2023

- **Attack surface reduction capabilities are rolling out**. [Attack surface reduction capabilities in Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-asr.md) include attack surface reduction rules and a new attack surface reduction rules report. Attack surface reduction rules target certain behaviors that are considered risky because they're commonly abused by attackers through malware. In the Microsoft 365 Defender portal ([https://security.microsoft.com/](https://security.microsoft.com/)), you can now view a report showing detections and configuration information for attack surface reduction rules. In the navigation pane, choose **Reports**, and under **Endpoints**, choose **Attack surface reduction rules**. 

- **Default experience for Defender for Business when an enterprise plan is added**. Defender for Business now retains its default experience ([simplified configuration and setup](../security/defender-business/mdb-simplified-configuration.md)) even if an enterprise plan, such as [Defender for Endpoint Plan 2](../security/defender-endpoint/microsoft-defender-endpoint.md) or [Microsoft Defender for Servers Plan 1 or 2](/azure/defender-for-cloud/plan-defender-for-servers) is added. To learn more, see [What happens if I have a mix of Microsoft endpoint security subscriptions](/microsoft-365/security/defender-business/mdb-faq?#what-happens-if-i-have-a-mix-of-microsoft-endpoint-security-subscriptions)? 

## November 2022

- **[Microsoft Defender for Business servers](../security/defender-business/get-defender-business-servers.md)**, a new add-on for Defender for Business, is now generally available. To learn more, see the following articles:
   - [How to get Microsoft Defender for Business servers](../security/defender-business/get-defender-business-servers.md)
   - [Tech Community Blog: Server security made simple for small businesses](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/small-and-medium-business-blog/server-security-made-simple-for-small-businesses/ba-p/3648928)

- **License reporting (preview) in Defender for Business**. A new report (rolling out in preview) enables you to view your Defender for Business license usage. To learn more, see [Reports in Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/mdb-reports.md).

## July 2022

- **Microsoft Defender for Business servers (preview)** is available to customers who have at least one paid license of Microsoft 365 Business Premium or Defender for Business. See [Tech Community blog: Server protection for small business is now in preview within Microsoft Defender for Business](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/small-and-medium-business-blog/server-protection-for-small-business-now-in-preview-within/ba-p/3571185).

## May 2022

- **Defender for Business** (standalone) is now generally available. To learn more, see the following resources:

   - [Tech Community blog: Introducing Microsoft Defender for Business](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/small-and-medium-business-blog/introducing-microsoft-defender-for-business/ba-p/2898701)
   - [What is Microsoft Defender for Business?](../security/defender-business/mdb-overview.md)
   - [Get Microsoft Defender for Business](../security/defender-business/get-defender-business.md)

## March 2022

- **Microsoft 365 Business Premium now includes Defender for Business**. To learn more, see [Tech Community blog: New security solutions to help secure small and medium businesses](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/small-and-medium-business-blog/new-security-solutions-to-help-secure-small-and-medium/ba-p/3207043).

## See also

[What's new in Microsoft 365 Lighthouse](../lighthouse/m365-lighthouse-whats-new.md)
