---
title: Supported data types and filters in guided mode
description: Learn about advanced hunting queries in Microsoft 365 and how to use them to proactively find threats and weaknesses in your network
keywords: advanced hunting, threat hunting, cyber threat hunting, Microsoft 365 Defender, microsoft 365, m365, search, query, telemetry, custom detections, schema, kusto
search.product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
search.appverid: met150
ms.prod: m365-security
ms.mktglfcycl: deploy
ms.sitesec: library
ms.pagetype: security
f1.keywords: 
  - NOCSH
ms.author: maccruz
author: schmurky
ms.localizationpriority: medium
manager: dansimp
audience: ITPro
ms.collection: 
  - M365-security-compliance
  - m365initiative-m365-defender
ms.topic: article
ms.technology: m365d
---

# Refine your query in guided mode 

## Data types
[ADD INTRO]
The following data types are supported for filtering:

### Numbers
[INTRO]

[IMAGE]
### Strings
[INTRO]

[IMAGE]

In the free text box, type the value and press **Enter** to add it. Note that the delimiter between values is **Enter**.

[IMAGE]

### Boolean
[INTRO]
[IMAGE]

### Datetime
[INTRO]
[IMAGE]

### Closed list

You don’t need to remember the exact value you are looking for. You can easily choose from a suggested closed list that supports multi-selection:

[IMAGE]

## Using subgroups
You can create conditions groups by clicking **Add subgroup**:

[IMAGE]

## Smart auto-complete for search
Smart auto-complete for searching devices and user accounts is supported. 
You don’t need to remember the device ID, full device name, or user account name. You can start typing the first few characters of the device or user you are looking for and a suggested list appears from which you can choose what you need:

[IMAGE]

## Hunting for specific event types
You can even look for specific event types like all failed logons, file modification events, or successful network connections by using the **EventType** filter in any section where it is applicable.

For instance, if you want to add a condition that looks for registry value deletions, you can go to the **Registry Events** section and select **EventType**.

[IMAGE]

Selecting EventType under Registry Events allows you to choose from different registry events, including the one you’re hunting for, **RegistryValueDeleted**.

[IMAGE]

## Testing your query with a smaller sample size
If you’re still working on your query and would like to see its performance and some sample results quickly, adjust the number of records to return by picking a smaller set through the **Sample size** dropdown menu. 
 
[IMAGE]

The sample size is set to 10,000 results by default. This is the maximum number of records that can be returned in hunting. However, we highly recommend lowering the sample size to 10 or 100 to quickly test your query as doing so consumes less resources while you are still working on improving the query.

Then, once you finalize your query and are ready to use it to get all the relevant results for your hunting activity, make sure that the sample size is set to 10k, the maximum.

## Switching to advanced mode after building a query
You can click on **Edit in KQL** to view the KQL query generated by your selected conditions. Editing in KQL opens a new tab in advanced mode, with the corresponding KQL query:

[IMAGE]

In the above example, the selected view is All, therefore you can see that the KQL query searches all tables that have file properties of name and SHA256, and in all the relevant columns covering these properties. 

If you change the view to **Emails & collaboration**, the query is narrowed down to:

[IMAGE]
## See also